BUSINESS [Dual certified within a month of joining the team - Execution, Googleyness]

One of the OKRs for swarm team members is to have dual certifications within the  three months of joining the team to be a trusted partner for the strategic customers . Masud rushed in to obtain dual certification within the month of joining the team so that he makes an impact to the two most strategic accounts in Canada during a time they needed  help to unblock issues to deploy critical workloads. e.g.; Scotia Tokenization to unblock 5M dollar workloads, Loblaws CNC App to unblock 1.3M dollar workload. Later, Masud helped fellow nooglers to help with their certifications. 


CUSTOMER [Make customer impact by helping product team to resolve bugs - Problem Solving, Thought Leadership] 

Please see below for some of the key achievements for Masud working with multiple team to help client successfully deploy GCP products with two large strategic accounts in Canada. 



[Scotia Bank] Dataflow to Continuously Poll for new files in given interval from GCS 

With the resolution of this bug , Scotia bank was being able to move forward with the PII data ingestion architecture which helps unblock 4 related workloads valued approximately 5M dollar yearly commit.
This was a very useful feature for new dataflow release and resolution of this bug helped simplifying the architecture for quite a few customers. Note: No longer required to use pub sub and cloud function as a triggering pattern to data flow from GCS bucket.

[Loblaw] Scanner failed to capture analysis in Forseti 2.0 

Just prior to launch of a critical workload, customer was concerned about security and reached out to swarm team for help. Masud helped to setup Forseti with CSCC to help them analyze and update security vulnerability. However there were quite a few issues( Bug 1 and Bug 2) he had to work closely with product team to resolve.  

[Loblaw] CSCC- Forseti integration with a custom GAE app

With the new release of Forseti 2.0 and CSCC alpha , it was not straightforward to integrate. As customer's request, Masud had to work closely with product team to troubleshoot and setup. There is a email from product team to highlight the details. 

[Loblaw] Istio 1.0 deployment with  Stackdriver  

As part of phase 2 (optimization) for Loblaws CNC app, Masud created a Microservice architecture using istio and stack-driver to highlight the benefit of cloud service platform announced in next 18.  In the process, he helped product team to update document to help with other customers which changed significantly since istio 1.0 release.  

CUSTOMER [Scotia PII Ingestion Architecture & PoC - Problem Solving, Leadership] 

Masud worked as one of the key individual to build a reusable and secure data ingestion/ processing architecture in GCP that helps one of the customers to move PII data from on prem to GCP and thus unblock a large number of dependent workloads. Please see email attached.
To meet customer's requirements for this critical architecture, Masud had to work with one of the senior contributors to beam team to implement a feature that is going to be very useful for multiple customers going forward. Please see details from the link below:
beam-5137
beam-5836
critique-203976783

This tasks highlight google's one team approach among customer engineers, product mangers and core engineering team to work together to help a large strategic enterprise client here in Canada be successful using GCP products. 


BUSINESS [Reusable solutions to help GCP Customers- Thought Leadership, Presence]
Masud has multiple open source contributions that help peers and customers. 



DLP Deidentification with Dataflow 

This is developed based on secure data ingestion architecture proposed for one of the financial clients and currently being looked at by at-least 3 others GCP customers looking for DLP solution.
This is one of the first solutions developed  that uses DLP api with data flow and KMS (customer applied encryption key). Masud is working closely with DLP product manager to publish a solution and how to guide to make a greater impact across community.


Distributed Load Testing Tool with Locust 0.8

This is developed to help fellow customer engineers looking to perform some distributed load testing with other Google products.  This solution is an extension of a published solution in GCP blogs



Spring Boot Microservices with Istio 1.0 in GKE

This is a sample demo architecture to showcase how to use Spring Boot with other GCP products (Istio 1.0, GKE, Cloud SQL) This is currently in process to share with open source communities for spring and java developers as a sample how-to project.    